>> As the countdown to the
release of the government
report on UFOs intensifies, new
developments reveal just how
uncoordinated the
response has been.
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
With new reports on
unidentified aerial phenomenon
coming forward almost daily,
some from high-level officials,
mainstream media has
gotten in on the coverage.
As Washington prepares
for the report release
at the end of June, the
issue has turned from farce
to serious inquiry.
And now many questions
are being raised
as to the government's
handling of the matter.
Nick Pope ran the British
Ministry of Defence's UFO
project, where he conducted
official investigations
into the phenomenon in the UK.
Having worked within
these infrastructures,
he gives us his take on the
lead-up to the US UFO report.
>> There are factions here, and
there's a struggle for control
of the narrative.
And the believer faction
is making its move
but is getting some pushback.
Really what's happening
is, of course,
the struggle for control
of the narrative when
it comes to the report
going to Congress.
Somebody is drafting
that for director
of National Intelligence,
and that's probably
the Unidentified
Aerial Phenomena Task
Force in the Office
of Naval Intelligence.
But they're not necessarily
speaking with one voice,
and there's leaking going
on as well, which is always
a sign that there's disagreement
over the handling of this
within government.
Recent handling of this
policy is 180 degree different
from the previous
policy of denial
and debunking, which
suggests the faction who
thinks we need to
get this out there,
put the information
into the public domain.
And that faction is
certainly struggling
for power and authority.
There's probably
blood on the carpet
at Office of Director
of National Intelligence
and at the Pentagon on this.
So very interesting
times for sure.
>> Another clear sign of
this internal divisiveness is
the three new inspector
general investigations into how
the government has been
managing the whole issue.
And at the center of
these investigations
is Luis Elizondo, a former
military intelligence officer
who, according to some, ran
AATIP, the secret government
program to investigate UFOs.
He's also credited
with bringing forward
the three military
videos of UFOs
featured on the front page of
"The New York Times" in 2017.
>> Luis Elizondo is, I think,
the classic all-American hero.
Joined the military,
secunded certainly
into various different
intelligence roles
and working with various
different agencies
on a huge variety of subjects.
His involvement with
AATIP is what brought him
to public attention.
And certainly "The
New York Times"
breaking the story about
AATIP in the US Navy videos
is what catapulted him
into people's awareness.
But I think the
feeling is that there
are people still in the system
who are briefing against him.
And he obviously-- rightly--
feels slighted by this.
>> In response to
these aspersions,
Luis Elizondo has
recently retained renowned
constitutional lawyer
Daniel Sheehan.
>> So there was this
whole back-and-forth with
representations being made
by certain people inside
the Defense Department
indicating that somehow Lou
Elizondo was not telling
the truth about the videos.
They didn't even acknowledge
that the videos were genuine.
So there was this whole
period of confusion
that went on in there.
But when it got settled
down and actual officials
from the Defense
Department acknowledged
the validity of the videos, that
became an entire second round
of news, a news cycle.
Oh wow, now look, the Pentagon
has actually confirmed this.
But there were still elements
inside the Defense Department
that kept on, strangely
enough, asserting
that, well, it wasn't true.
And then they started
taking the position
that Lou Elizondo
was misrepresenting
the mission of the Advanced
Aerospace Threat Identification
Project.
What Lou is trying to do
is to have me assist him
in getting some clear
clarification of what
the level of hierarchy
is inside the Defense
Department with regard to
what the official position is.
>> To Daniel Sheehan, this
inconsistency in handling has
been a recurring pattern.
>> It's obvious that
there has been a--
not a perfectly
coordinated program
coming from the Defense
Department, the Central
Intelligence Agency, the
National Security Agency,
and others, who have
been on again, off again
about this whole subject.
And that they're engaged
in some sort of an attempt
to feather into
the public culture
information about this subject.
One of our objectives
in this is trying
to figure out where they're
at in that particular strategy
right now.
>> Nick Pope feels like there
is in fact a strategic objective
here.
>> There's a playbook.
Some of the statements that
you hear look and sound
scripted, and that's
because they are.
But as to the why, that is
much more difficult to discern.
And I think one possible answer
is people within government,
they know or suspect
that something is coming.
I mean, whether that
is literally something
physical and a rival
event of some sort,
or whether it's
simply the disclosure
of historical
information, I don't know.
There comes a point where
the critical mass of a secret
becomes such that
the dam bursts,
and I think we're
at that point now.
>> For Daniel Sheehan,
there's a much bigger picture
to consider.
>> This is such an
extraordinarily important issue
for our human family.
We're talking about the next
5,000 years of human history
here and what our
relationship may
be with an extraterrestrial
civilization.
And this is a critical point
in our human history right now.
>> For now, we'll just have to
wait and see if the government
report will shed some light or
just lead to more questions.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."